docs/core_api/vehicle_dynamics/interfaces.md, before:

# Vehicle Model Interface

This page describes the **VehicleModelInterface**, which defines a **common abstraction layer**
for all vehicle dynamics models used in CommonRoad-Control.

The interface follows a **factory method design pattern** and enables seamless interchangeability
of different vehicle dynamics models (e.g., kinematic bicycle, dynamic bicycle)
for simulation and control.

Any concrete vehicle model must implement this interface.

---

## Dataclass Objects

In addition to the vehicle model itself, we provide dataclass objects for storing vehicle-specific state vectors, inputs, disturbance, and noise vectors as well as trajectories.
The `StateInputDisturbanceTrajectoryFactoryInterface` (short `sidt_factory`) implements the functionality for instantiating these dataclass objects from `numpy` arrays or by providing the respective attributes as individual arguments.

The state, input, disturbance, and noise dataclass objects can be converted to `numpy` arrays using their `convert_to_array()` method for, e.g., numerical simulation.

### State Vector

Each model defines a state vector:

$$
\mathbf{x} \in \mathbb{R}^{n_x}
$$


---

### Control Input Vector

Each model defines a control input vector:

$$
\mathbf{u} \in \mathbb{R}^{n_u}
$$

---

### Disturbance Vector

Each model defines an additive disturbance to account for, e.g., unmodeled dynamics or external forces:

$$
\mathbf{w} \in \mathbb{R}^{n_w}
$$

where $n_w = n_x$.
Per default, each component of $\mathbf{w}$ is set to zero unless specified otherwise during instantiation.

--- 

### Noise Vector

For full-state feedback (see also the [sensor model documentation](/docs/simulation/sensor_models.md)), each model defines a full-state noise vector:

$$
\mathbf{\nu} \in \mathbb{R}^{n_{\nu}}
$$

where $n_{\nu} = n_x$.
Per default, each component of $\mathbf{\nu}$ is set to zero unless specified otherwise during instantiation.

---

### Trajectory

A trajectory stores a list of points that are sampled at a constant rate of $1/{\Delta t}$ starting at initial time $t_0$ and ending at final time $t_{\mathrm{final}}$. 

Querying of the trajectory is possible at discrete points in time with $t = t_0 + k \Delta t$ using

```python
def get_point_at_time_step(k)
```

as well as continuous points in time $t$ with $t_0 \leq t \leq t_{\mathrm{final}}$ using

```python
def get_point_at_time_step(t, sidt_factory)
```

where the point at time $t$ is approximated via linear interpolation between the points at adjacent discrete time steps.
To return the point as an instance of the corresponding dataclass, the vehicle-specific `sidt_factory` is required as an input argument.

Same as the states, inputs, disturbances, and noises, the trajectory supports conversion to a `numpy` array using its `convert_to_array` method.


---

## Continuous-Time Dynamics

Every vehicle model must implement the continuous-time dynamics:
$$
\mathbf{\dot{x}} = f(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{u}, \mathbf{w}) = f_{\mathrm{nominal}}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{u}) + \mathbf{w}
$$
where $f_{\mathrm{nominal}}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{u})$ denotes the nominal vehicle dynamics.

The continuous-time dynamics must be implemented via the method:

```python
def _dynamics_cas(x, u, w)
```

For public access of the dynamics model (e.g., for simulation), the following method is implemented:
```python
def dynamics_ct(x, u, w)
```
This function serves as a wrapper for the continuous-time dynamics and accepts states, control inputs, and disturbances that are represented as instances of the respective dataclass.

---

## Time Discretization

For model predictive control, the interface automatically constructs a **time-discretized nominal model** (i.e., $\mathbf{w} = \mathbf{0}$):

$$
\mathbf{x}_{k+1} = f_d(\mathbf{x}_k, \mathbf{u}_k, \mathbf{0})
$$

using a fixed sampling time $\Delta t$ provided to the constructor of the class and the classical Runge-Kutta method (aka RK4).

---

### Linearization

For linearization/convexification-based optimal control, the interface provides **automatic linearization** of the time-discretized dynamics:
$$
\mathbf{x}_{k+1} \approx f_d(\bar{\mathbf{x}}, \bar{\mathbf{u}},\mathbf{0}) + A (\mathbf{x} - \bar{\mathbf{x}}) + B (\mathbf{u} - \bar{\mathbf{u}})
$$
where:
- $A = \frac{\partial f_d}{\partial \mathbf{x}}$
- $B = \frac{\partial f_d}{\partial \mathbf{u}}$

These Jacobians are computed symbolically using CasADi.

---

## Normalized Accelerations

All models provide the functionality for computing the normalized longitudinal and lateral accelerations.
The vehicle does not exceed the combined acceleration limits if the following constraint is satisfied:
$$
a_{\mathrm{long,norm}}^2 + a_{\mathrm{lat,norm}}^2 \leq 1
$$
The corresponding functions are designed to enable the integration of this constraint in an optimal control problem for model predictive control.

---

## Input Bounds

Each vehicle model must define (element-wise) input bounds:

$$
\mathbf{u}_{\min} \le \mathbf{u} \le \mathbf{u}_{\max}
$$

derived from the vehicle parameters.

---


:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.vehicle_model_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.state_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.input_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.trajectory_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.disturbance_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.full_state_noise_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.sidt_factory_interface

Commit message:

sensor and uncertainty model documentation + minor refactoring

docs/core_api/vehicle_dynamics/interfaces.md, after:

# Vehicle Model Interface

This page describes the **VehicleModelInterface**, which defines a **common abstraction layer**
for all vehicle dynamics models used in CommonRoad-Control.
The interface enables seamless interchangeability of different vehicle dynamics models (e.g., kinematic bicycle, 
dynamic bicycle) for simulation and control.

---

## Dataclass Objects

In addition to the vehicle model itself, we provide dataclass objects for storing vehicle-specific state vectors, inputs, disturbance, and noise vectors as well as trajectories.
The `StateInputDisturbanceTrajectoryFactoryInterface` (short `sidt_factory`) implements the functionality for instantiating these dataclass objects from `numpy` arrays or by providing the respective attributes as individual arguments.

The state, input, disturbance, and noise dataclass objects can be converted to `numpy` arrays using their `convert_to_array()` method for, e.g., numerical simulation.

### State Vector

Each model defines a state vector:

$$
\mathbf{x} \in \mathbb{R}^{n_x}
$$


---

### Control Input Vector

Each model defines a control input vector:

$$
\mathbf{u} \in \mathbb{R}^{n_u}
$$

---

### Disturbance Vector

Each model defines an additive disturbance to account for, e.g., unmodeled dynamics or external forces:

$$
\mathbf{w} \in \mathbb{R}^{n_w}
$$

where $n_w = n_x$.
Per default, each component of $\mathbf{w}$ is set to zero unless specified otherwise during instantiation.

--- 

### Noise Vector

For full-state feedback (see also the [sensor model documentation](/docs/simulation/sensor_models.md)), each model defines a full-state noise vector:

$$
\mathbf{\nu} \in \mathbb{R}^{n_{\nu}}
$$

where $n_{\nu} = n_x$.
Per default, each component of $\mathbf{\nu}$ is set to zero unless specified otherwise during instantiation.

---

### Trajectory

A trajectory stores a list of points that are sampled at a constant rate of $1/{\Delta t}$ starting at initial time $t_0$ and ending at final time $t_{\mathrm{final}}$. 

Querying of the trajectory is possible at discrete points in time with $t = t_0 + k \Delta t$ using

```python
def get_point_at_time_step(k)
```

as well as continuous points in time $t$ with $t_0 \leq t \leq t_{\mathrm{final}}$ using

```python
def get_point_at_time_step(t, sidt_factory)
```

where the point at time $t$ is approximated via linear interpolation between the points at adjacent discrete time steps.
To return the point as an instance of the corresponding dataclass, the vehicle-specific `sidt_factory` is required as an input argument.

Same as the states, inputs, disturbances, and noises, the trajectory supports conversion to a `numpy` array using its `convert_to_array` method.


---

## Continuous-Time Dynamics

Every vehicle model must implement the continuous-time dynamics:
$$
\mathbf{\dot{x}} = f(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{u}, \mathbf{w}) = f_{\mathrm{nominal}}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{u}) + \mathbf{w}
$$
where $f_{\mathrm{nominal}}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{u})$ denotes the nominal vehicle dynamics.

The continuous-time dynamics must be implemented via the method:

```python
def _dynamics_cas(x, u, w)
```

For public access of the dynamics model (e.g., for simulation), the following method is implemented:
```python
def dynamics_ct(x, u, w)
```
This function serves as a wrapper for the continuous-time dynamics and accepts states, control inputs, and disturbances that are represented as instances of the respective dataclass.

---

## Time Discretization

For model predictive control, the interface automatically constructs a **time-discretized nominal model** (i.e., $\mathbf{w} = \mathbf{0}$):

$$
\mathbf{x}_{k+1} = f_d(\mathbf{x}_k, \mathbf{u}_k, \mathbf{0})
$$

using a fixed sampling time $\Delta t$ provided to the constructor of the class and the classical Runge-Kutta method (aka RK4).

---

### Linearization

For linearization/convexification-based optimal control, the interface provides **automatic linearization** of the time-discretized dynamics:
$$
\mathbf{x}_{k+1} \approx f_d(\bar{\mathbf{x}}, \bar{\mathbf{u}},\mathbf{0}) + A (\mathbf{x} - \bar{\mathbf{x}}) + B (\mathbf{u} - \bar{\mathbf{u}})
$$
where:
- $A = \frac{\partial f_d}{\partial \mathbf{x}}$
- $B = \frac{\partial f_d}{\partial \mathbf{u}}$

These Jacobians are computed symbolically using CasADi.

---

## Normalized Accelerations

All models provide the functionality for computing the normalized longitudinal and lateral accelerations.
The vehicle does not exceed the combined acceleration limits if the following constraint is satisfied:
$$
a_{\mathrm{long,norm}}^2 + a_{\mathrm{lat,norm}}^2 \leq 1
$$
The corresponding functions are designed to enable the integration of this constraint in an optimal control problem for model predictive control.

---

## Input Bounds

Each vehicle model must define (element-wise) input bounds:

$$
\mathbf{u}_{\min} \le \mathbf{u} \le \mathbf{u}_{\max}
$$

derived from the vehicle parameters.

---

---

## Implementation

The following API documentation is auto-generated from the Python source code.

:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.vehicle_model_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.state_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.input_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.trajectory_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.disturbance_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.full_state_noise_interface
:::commonroad_control.vehicle_dynamics.sidt_factory_interface
